src/docs/channelSecurity.adoc, before:

[[channelSecurity]]
== Channel Security

Use channel security to configure which URLs require HTTP and which require HTTPS.

[width="100%",options="header"]
|====================
| *Property* | *Default Value* | *Meaning*
| portMapper.httpPort | 8080 | HTTP port your application uses.
| portMapper.httpsPort | 8443 | HTTPS port your application uses.
| secureChannel.definition | none | Map of URL pattern to channel rule
|====================

Build a Map under the `secureChannel.definition` key, where the keys are URL patterns, and the values are one of `REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL`, `REQUIRES_INSECURE_CHANNEL`, or `ANY_CHANNEL`:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.definition = [
   '/login/**':         'REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL',
   '/maps/**':          'REQUIRES_INSECURE_CHANNEL',
   '/images/login/**':  'REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL',
   '/images/**':        'ANY_CHANNEL'
]
----

URLs are checked in order, so be sure to put more specific rules before less specific. In the preceding example, `/images/login/pass:[**]` is more specific than `/images/pass:[**]`, so it appears first in the configuration.

=== Header checking

The default implementation of channel security is fairly simple; if you're using HTTP but HTTPS is required, you get redirected to the corresponding SSL URL and vice versa. But when using a load balancer such as an F5 BIG-IP it's not possible to just check secure/insecure. In that case you can configure the load balancer to set a request header indicating the current state. To use this approach, set the `useHeaderCheckChannelSecurity` configuration property to `true` and optionally change the header names or values:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.useHeaderCheckChannelSecurity = true
----

By default the header name is "X-Forwarded-Proto" and the secure header value is "http" (i.e. if you're not secure, redirect to secure) and the insecure header value is "https" (i.e. if you're secure, redirect to insecure). You can change any or all of these default values though:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.secureHeaderName = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.secureHeaderValue = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.insecureHeaderName = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.insecureHeaderValue = '...'
----

Commit message:

changed secureChannel.definition config to use fixed keys to avoid conf parsing issues

src/docs/channelSecurity.adoc, after:

[[channelSecurity]]
== Channel Security

Use channel security to configure which URLs require HTTP and which require HTTPS.

[width="100%",options="header"]
|====================
| *Property* | *Default Value* | *Meaning*
| portMapper.httpPort | 8080 | HTTP port your application uses.
| portMapper.httpsPort | 8443 | HTTPS port your application uses.
| secureChannel.definition | none | Map of URL pattern to channel rule
|====================

Build a `List` of single-entry ``Map``s under the `secureChannel.definition` key, where URL patterns are stored under the key "`pattern`", and the values are stored under the key "`access`" and are one of the access keywords `REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL`, `REQUIRES_INSECURE_CHANNEL`, or `ANY_CHANNEL`:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.definition = [
   [pattern: '/login/**',        access: 'REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL'],
   [pattern: '/maps/**',         access: 'REQUIRES_INSECURE_CHANNEL'],
   [pattern: '/images/login/**', access: 'REQUIRES_SECURE_CHANNEL'],
   [pattern: '/images/**',       access: 'ANY_CHANNEL']
]
----


[WARNING]
====
The format of `secureChannel.definition` has changed from previous versions to avoid configuration parsing issues. In previous versions the property was a single Map, where the keys were the access patterns and the values were one of the access keywords above. The old format is no longer supported and your configurations must be updated to the newer format.
====

URLs are checked in order, so be sure to put more specific rules before less specific. In the preceding example, `/images/login/pass:[**]` is more specific than `/images/pass:[**]`, so it appears first in the configuration.

=== Header checking

The default implementation of channel security is fairly simple; if you're using HTTP but HTTPS is required, you get redirected to the corresponding SSL URL and vice versa. But when using a load balancer such as an F5 BIG-IP it's not possible to just check secure/insecure. In that case you can configure the load balancer to set a request header indicating the current state. To use this approach, set the `useHeaderCheckChannelSecurity` configuration property to `true` and optionally change the header names or values:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.useHeaderCheckChannelSecurity = true
----

By default the header name is "X-Forwarded-Proto" and the secure header value is "http" (i.e. if you're not secure, redirect to secure) and the insecure header value is "https" (i.e. if you're secure, redirect to insecure). You can change any or all of these default values though:

[source,java]
----
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.secureHeaderName = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.secureHeaderValue = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.insecureHeaderName = '...'
grails.plugin.springsecurity.secureChannel.insecureHeaderValue = '...'
----
